Readme reorganize (#669)
shipwright-io/build: README.md

    <a href="https://pkg.go.dev/mod/github.com/shipwright-io/build"> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/go.dev-reference-007d9c?logo=go&logoColor=white"></a>
</p>

# Shipwright

Shipwright is an extensible framework for building container images on Kubernetes.

## Why?

With Shipwright developers get a simplified approach for building container images, by defining a minimal YAML that does not require

> any previous knowledge of containers or containers tooling. All you need is your source code in git and access to a container registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any previous knowledge of containers or container tooling. All you need is your source code in git and access to a container registry.
```

Author: done

> Shipwright can support any tool that can build container images, such as [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko),
> [Cloud Native Buildpacks](https://buildpacks.io/), and [Buildah](https://buildah.io/). See [default strategies](#build-strategies) for more information.

Reviewer: Like Jordan said, maybe better to avoiding double "can".
```suggestion
Shipwright supports any tool that can build container images, for example [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko),
[Cloud Native Buildpacks](https://buildpacks.io/), or [Buildah](https://buildah.io/). See [default strategies](#build-strategies) for more information.
```

Author: done

## Try It!

* We assume you already have a Kubernetes cluster (v1.18+). If you don't, you can use [Kind](/hack/install-kind.sh).

* We also require a Tekton installation (v1.19+). To install the latest version, run:

  ```bash

>   $ kubectl apply --filename https://storage.googleapis.com/tekton-releases/pipeline/previous/v0.20.1/release.yaml

Reviewer: Nit: Should we align the version mentioned in the text with the one in the `kubectl`?

Author: you mean align v1.19 with the one in the `kubectl` cmd?

Author: v1.19+ was basically the same as "our oldest version is v1.19+" , so it shouldn't match what we use as our default(_v0.20.*_). The problem is that we do not really have a good way to know whats our oldest supported version. I will modify this at least to be a v1.18+, is that ok for you?

I also layout the above problem in https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/issues/681

Author: Updated, closing.

  ```

* Install the necessary deployments and strategies:

  ```bash
  $ kubectl apply --filename https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/releases/download/nightly/nightly-2021-03-03-1614768199.yaml #TODO: we dont have an asset here
  $ kubectl apply --filename https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/releases/download/v0.3.0/default_strategies.yaml #TODO: we dont have an asset here
  ```

> * Add a push secret to your container image repository, such as one on Docker Hub or quay.io:

Reviewer: Nit: Use names (with spelling from their respective websites) with URLs.
```suggestion
* Add a push secret to your container image repository, such as one on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) or [Quay.io](https://quay.io/):
```

Author: done

  ```bash
  $ kubectl create secret generic push-secret --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=$HOME/.docker/config.json --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
  ```

* Create a Build object, replacing `<MY_USERNAME>` with the registry username your `push-secret` have access to:

```bash
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1alpha1
kind: Build
metadata:
  name: buildpack-nodejs-build
spec:
  source:
    url: https://github.com/shipwright-io/sample-nodejs
    contextDir: source-build
  strategy:
    name: buildpacks-v3
    kind: ClusterBuildStrategy
  output:

>     image: docker.io/eeeoo/nodejs:latest

Reviewer: Some placeholders here?
```suggestion
    image: docker.io/<org>/<repo>:<tag>
```

Author: done, did it a little bit differently

    credentials:
      name: push-secret
EOF
```

  ```bash
  $ kubectl get builds
  NAME                     REGISTERED   REASON      BUILDSTRATEGYKIND      BUILDSTRATEGYNAME   CREATIONTIME
  buildpack-nodejs-build   True         Succeeded   ClusterBuildStrategy   buildpacks-v3       68s
  ```

* Submit your buildrun:

```bash
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1alpha1
kind: BuildRun
metadata:
  generateName: buildpack-nodejs-buildrun-
spec:
  buildRef:
    name: buildpack-nodejs-build
EOF
```

> * Wait your buildrun is completed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Wait until your buildrun is completed:
```

Author: done

    <a href="https://pkg.go.dev/mod/github.com/shipwright-io/build"> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/go.dev-reference-007d9c?logo=go&logoColor=white"></a>
</p>

> # ![shipwright-logo](.docs/shipwright-logo-lightbg-512.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# ![shipwright-logo](./docs/shipwright-logo-lightbg-512.png)
```

Shipwright is an extensible framework for building container images on Kubernetes.

## Why?

With Shipwright developers get a simplified approach for building container images, by defining a minimal YAML that does not require
any previous knowledge of containers or container tooling. All you need is your source code in git and access to a container registry.

Shipwright supports any tool that can build container images in Kubernetes clusters, such as:

- [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko)
- [Cloud Native Buildpacks](https://buildpacks.io/)
- [Buildah](https://buildah.io/)

## Try It!

> * We assume you already have a Kubernetes cluster (v1.18+). If you don't, you can use [Kind](/hack/install-kind.sh).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* We assume you already have a Kubernetes cluster (v1.18+). If you don't, you can use [KinD](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io), which you can install by running [`./hack/install-kind.sh`](./hack/install-kind.sh).
```

> * We also require a Tekton installation (v1.19+). To install the latest version, run:

Author: done

  ```bash
  $ kubectl apply --filename https://storage.googleapis.com/tekton-releases/pipeline/previous/v0.20.1/release.yaml
  ```

* Install the Shipwright deployment. To install the latest version, run:

  ```bash
  $ kubectl apply --filename https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/releases/download/nightly/nightly-2021-03-24-1616591545.yaml
  ```

> * Install the Shipwright strategies. To install the latest version, run::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install the Shipwright strategies. To install the latest version, run:
```

  ```bash
  $ kubectl apply --filename https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/releases/download/nightly/default_strategies.yaml
  ```

* Generate a secret to access your container registry, such as one on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) or [Quay.io](https://quay.io/):

  ```bash
  $ REGISTRY_SERVER=https://index.docker.io/v1/ REGISTRY_USER=<your_registry_user> REGISTRY_PASSWORD=<your_registry_password>

>   $ kubectl create secret docker-registry push-secret --docker-server=$REGISTRY_SERVER --docker-username=$REGISTRY_USER --docker-password=$REGISTRY_PASSWORD  --docker-email=me@here.com

Reviewer: Maybe, for readability, we could if we want, change to multiple lines:
```suggestion
  $ kubectl create secret docker-registry push-secret \
      --docker-server=$REGISTRY_SERVER \
      --docker-username=$REGISTRY_USER \
      --docker-password=$REGISTRY_PASSWORD  \
      --docker-email=me@here.com
```

      credentials:
        name: push-secret
  EOF
  ```

  ```bash
  $ kubectl get builds
  NAME                     REGISTERED   REASON      BUILDSTRATEGYKIND      BUILDSTRATEGYNAME   CREATIONTIME
  buildpack-nodejs-build   True         Succeeded   ClusterBuildStrategy   buildpacks-v3       68s
  ```

* Submit your buildrun:

  ```bash
  $ cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
  apiVersion: shipwright.io/v1alpha1
  kind: BuildRun
  metadata:
    generateName: buildpack-nodejs-buildrun-
  spec:
    buildRef:
      name: buildpack-nodejs-build
  EOF
  ```

* Wait until your buildrun is completed:

  ```bash
  $ kubectl get buildruns
  NAME                              SUCCEEDED   REASON      STARTTIME   COMPLETIONTIME
  buildpack-nodejs-buildrun-xyzds   True        Succeeded   69s         2s
  ```

  or

  ```bash
  $ kubectl get buildrun --output name | xargs kubectl wait --for=condition=Succeeded --timeout=180s
  ```

* After your buildrun is completed, check your container registry, you will find the new generated image uploaded there.

## Please tell me more!

Depending on your source code, you might want to build it differently with Shipwright.

> To find out more on what´s the best strategy or what else can Shipwright do for you, please visit our [tutorial](/docs/tutorials/tutorial.md)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find out more on what's the best strategy or what else can Shipwright do for you, please visit our [tutorial](./docs/tutorials/tutorial.md)!
```

| [v0.2.0](https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/releases/tag/v0.2.0)    | [Docs @ v0.2.0](https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/tree/v0.2.0/docs) | [Examples @ v0.2.0](https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/tree/v0.2.0/samples) |
| [v0.1.1](https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/releases/tag/v0.1.1)    | [Docs @ v0.1.1](https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/tree/v0.1.1/docs) | [Examples @ v0.1.1](https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/tree/v0.1.1/samples) |
| [v0.1.0](https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/releases/tag/v0.1.0)    | [Docs @ v0.1.0](https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/tree/v0.1.0/docs) | [Examples @ v0.1.0](https://github.com/shipwright-io/build/tree/v0.1.0/samples) |

### Dependencies

| Dependency                           | Supported versions           |
| -------------------------------------| ---------------------------- |
| [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) | v1.17.\*, v1.18.\*, v1.19.\* |
| [Tekton](https://tekton.dev)         | v0.21.0                      |

## Want to get involved?

### Community meetings

> We host weekly meetings for contributors, maintainers and anyone interested in the project. The weekly meetings take place on Monday´s at 2pm UTC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We host weekly meetings for contributors, maintainers and anyone interested in the project. The weekly meetings take place on Mondays at 2pm UTC.
```

> We host weekly meetings for contributors, maintainers and anyone interested in the project. The weekly meetings take place on Monday´s at 2pm UTC.

Author: done, thanks

    <a href="https://pkg.go.dev/mod/github.com/shipwright-io/build"> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/go.dev-reference-007d9c?logo=go&logoColor=white"></a>
</p>

# Shipwright

Shipwright is an extensible framework for building container images on Kubernetes.

## Why?

With Shipwright developers get a simplified approach for building container images, by defining a minimal YAML that does not require

> any previous knowledge of containers or containers tooling. All you need is your source code in git and access to a container registry.

Reviewer 3: `containers or containers tooling`, do we need `s` behind the container here?

> Shipwright can support any tool that can build container images, such as [Kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko),

Reviewer 3: `Shipwright can support any tool that can build container images` -> `Shipwright supports several verified tools that can build container images` ? Or remove one `can` from the sentence
